---
layout: post
title: Outreachy 2017
---
 Being an open source aficionado, I had decided to the amazing program sponsored by Red-Hat, called the Outreachy which was started to promote the women in the Open source community. It had started with few organizations and now has some of the biggest communities a part of it. 


This usually occurs around two periods, the first term starts in September and the other one starts in February.
Having contributed to open source before as a part of Debian I had decided to apply for the September period which was the 15th Outreachy round and hence began searching for the projects that highly interested me. Having done prior work in debian I decided to look for projects being done under the Debian community and the one that particularly interested me was Clean Room for PGP and X.509 (PKI) Key Management. 
The interesting part about applying for such an internship is, you learn a lot in the process. Apart from this, you get to talk to a lot of learned people out there who are always enthusiastic about helping the newbies like myself. Most of the times, the mailing lists are pretty useful, especially if the community is active. 
We are expected to complete a set of tasks before the application period closes which is a month from the day it opens. 
Outreachy(https://www.outreachy.org/)- This is the link to the official site. However, due to my semester dates colliding with the dates of the internship, it was not possible for me to apply for this round.
However, the next Outreachy round which the 16th round begins in February and as to prepare for it a bit early, I have already working on contributing to the ‘The Linux Kernel’.
Contributing to open source does require a lot of effort, however, the results are quite fruitful and definitely help in improving the coding skills. 

